# Big O Time Complexity

Before watching the video I've to say I take a complete course of Algorithms at university, in fact it was called "Algorithms and Data Structures". Also, I I had participated in some contests and have part of a Competitive Programming group, for the uni too. So… yeah, I'm to used to this. Anyway, let's learning again!

## Video

> Very first thing to learn

Summarizing, this is so really important and useful to categorize and choose and algorithm over another, based on its performance.

Ok, first and simple example:

```typescript
function sum_char_codes(n: string):number {
    let sum = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < n.length; i++) {
        sum += n.charCodeAt(i);
    }
    return sum;
}
```

Ok, this is `O(n)`, but why?
`O(n)` means this algorithm grows as long as the amount of elements, _the input_, grows. So if I have 10 elements the time is `O(10)` and obviously if I increase that number the time also grows. Here, in this example is 'cause we have a `for` loop where the iteration is over the length of the string, so that's all.

Now, what happens if I have two `for` loops instead of one. Surely you'll think something like, one `for` loop plus another `for` loop is two `for` loops. And if one loop is `O(n)` so two of their is `^2 O(n)`, but no. At least is not like that 'cause when we use Big O we're not interested about _constants_ and the exact amount of units we'll use to complete a task with some algorithm. No, we just want to know _how this grows. And that's why in that case it's the same `O(n)`.

And something really important to take in count. This is just theorical, in practice if we have an `n=4` in the case we have `O(n)` and `O(n^2)` we know `O(n^2)` is better.

### A common question

_What if I have a break?_ if the loop ends before run over all the elements of the array of string of whatever. Well, we want to know the approximately amount of time it takes, but always considering the **worst** scenario. Why? Because the ideal case it's always the best, we need the worst in case in reality that would be our case. We need to be sure if our algorithm will works in any situation.
